show you the latest pictures uh from
looking into Gaza at this point in time
as we've seen for the last several
months huge plumes of smoke Rising above
the strip but they have been
particularly intense in the last 24
hours or so as we mentioned at least 240
people have been killed in Israeli air
strikes in Gaza and that is since Monday
and uh the latest uh deadly strikes
targeted the Palestinian red cresant
building where thousands of people were
shot
touring well for a greater idea of
exactly what it is like within Gaza
we're going to go to sha Casey who is an
emergency medical team's coordinator at
the World Health Organization he has
been at elifa and El AXA hospitals in
Gaza in recent days thank you very much
for taking the time to talk to us uh
Sean we know you must be incredibly busy
first of all in terms of hospitals can
you just give us a bit of an update a
situation update on what the conditions
are like in those hospitals that you
have seen
certainly and thanks for having me the
situation in the hospitals is quite dire
at the moment uh gaza's hospitals are
functioning at about 20% of their
pre-war capacity um and at the same time
they're terribly overwhelmed with PA so
many hospitals have closed completely
many health workers have been displaced
uh and as was just described hospitals
like Naser European Gaza hospital and
alifa the few hospitals that are still
partially functioning or minimally
functioning uh are seeing huge numbers
of casualties come in almost around the
clock so uh at Naser medical complex
which your your colleague was reporting
on even prior to the hostilities in the
last few days they were having a
constant flow of trauma cases coming in
all day around the clock and there's
there was already a huge number of idps
on site and many of the staff have had
to flee unfortunately so um they're
operating at lower capacity with higher
numbers of patients and and seeing
serious injuries um blast injuries
gunshot wounds uh that require a lot of
attention and a lot of stuff and of
course people uh pulled from from the
rubble uh as well after air strikes
we've mentioned uh the Israeli bomb
bombing has really stepped up in the
last few days I mean even since the
United Nations security Council passed
that resolution I mean have you seen any
difference uh since that was past or
have things simply gotten worse over the
last 4 hours or
so it's been a horrible situation for 80
days or so now and we've seen uh
continuing hostilities in the last
couple of days last night there was a
lot of fire north of Rafa where I am uh
as your colleague was mentioning in the
hunus area um and we saw yesterday I was
at alaa hospital in the middle area
where the night before they had received
a huge number of of injuries 100 plus
injuries and and and many deceased
brought to the hospital from strikes the
night before so we're seeing uh
significant numbers in the hospitals and
and it's it's really important to
reiterate the the UN Security Council
resolution called for humanitarian
Pathways we have international
humanitarian law which requires
protection of Health Facilities
protection of civilians and it's really
critical that we see that realized
because we're seeing many civilians uh
losing their lives we're seeing
hospitals um lose functionality we're
seeing health workers displaced and
unable to care for the many many
patients that they're that are put
before them in this really horrible
situation just on a personal uh note how
are you able to move around and in
relative safety if we could call it that
because I understand that you've been to
the north of Gaza in the last few days
as well how are you able to to get from
from One hospital to
another it's not simple um I've been to
daa City three times in the in the last
uh two weeks and uh yesterday to the
middle area um doing so requires
coordination with both parties to this
conflict um a lot of logistical rangs
looking at routs that are open and
possible uh there's a lot of Destruction
especially the in in the Northern areas
as you as you enter Gaza City it's
almost unrecognizable my colleagues who
are from Gaza City say they they can't
tell what streets are on sometimes uh
because there's so much destruction and
there's Rubble all over the there's
bound wires some of our trucks have been
have been caught up in in cables that
are down uh there are huge crowds uh
many many people are displaced even
behind me uh in the in the courtyard
outside of this building there are
thousands of people displaced so moving
around is extremely challenging the
roads are pack of people here in Raa
they're they're covered in rubble in in
many parts of the Gaza Strip some roads
are in
and there are areas of active fighting
so it takes a lot of planning a lot of
coordination and a lot of effort frankly
I mean we simply have to deal with
punctured tires and rerouting along the
way just to be able to reach the
northern part of the G strip Sean thank
you so much for your time we really
really do appreciate it uh that's Sean
Casey uh with the World Health
Organization in Gaza thank
you thank you